.TH BUNPY-PM-LOCK 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-pm-lock \- regenerate bunpy.lock from pyproject.toml
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy pm lock
.RB [ \-\-check ]
.RB [ \-\-index
.IR url ]
.RB [ \-\-cache-dir
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Walks
.B [project].dependencies
in
.IR ./pyproject.toml ,
hands every direct requirement to the resolver, walks transitive
Requires-Dist edges, and writes
.I ./bunpy.lock
with one
.B [[package]]
row per pin. No install. The lockfile freezes the resolved version,
wheel filename, URL, and sha256 from the PyPI index so a re-run on a
second machine resolves to the same artefact.
.PP
The header carries a
.B content-hash
derived from the sorted, trimmed dep specs joined by newlines.
A cheap byte compare detects pyproject drift without re-resolving.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-check
Verify the lockfile against
.I ./pyproject.toml
and exit non-zero on drift: the lockfile is missing, the
content-hash differs, or a direct dependency in
.B [project].dependencies
has no matching lockfile entry. No PyPI traffic, no rewrite.
.TP
.BI \-\-index " url"
Override the PEP 691 simple index. Defaults to
.IR https://pypi.org/simple/ .
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the cache root. Defaults to
.I $BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
or the platform XDG default.
.SH SCOPE
v0.1.5 swaps the picker for the PubGrub-inspired resolver: every
Requires-Dist edge of every direct dep is walked, PEP 508 markers
are evaluated against the host environment, and platform wheels
(manylinux, musllinux, macosx, win) are picked through the host
tag ladder before each pin is written.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./pyproject.toml
Source of
.B [project].dependencies
and the content-hash inputs.
.TP
.I ./bunpy.lock
Output of
.BR pm lock .
Sorted by PEP 503 normalised name. LF line endings. Byte-stable.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a successful write. Non-zero on a missing pyproject, an
unresolvable spec, or (with
.BR \-\-check )
any drift.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-pm (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
