.TH BUNPY-CREATE 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-create \- scaffold a new project from a built-in template
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy create
.I template
.I name
.RB [ \-\-yes ]
.br
.B bunpy create
.B \-\-list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy create
generates a new Python project directory from one of four built-in
templates.
.PP
The
.I name
argument becomes both the directory name and the
.B project.name
in the generated
.IR pyproject.toml .
Hyphens and dots in the name are converted to underscores when used as
a Python module name (e.g.
.B my-cli
becomes
.B my_cli
in import paths).
.PP
Without
.BR \-\-yes ,
an interactive prompt collects project description, author name, and
Python version constraint. Defaults are shown in brackets; pressing
Enter accepts them.
.SH TEMPLATES
.TP
.B app
CLI application with
.B src/
layout, a
.B __main__.py
entry point, and a
.B [project.scripts]
entry in
.BR pyproject.toml .
.TP
.B lib
Library with
.B src/
layout and a
.B tests/
stub.
.TP
.B script
A single
.B .py
file with a bunpy shebang. No
.IR pyproject.toml .
.TP
.B workspace
A root
.IR pyproject.toml
with
.B [tool.bunpy.workspace]
and two member package stubs under
.BR packages/ .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-\-yes ", " \-y
Accept all prompt defaults without asking.
.TP
.B \-\-list
Print the available templates and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Project scaffolded successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Unknown template, destination directory exists, or other error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a CLI application interactively:
.PP
.nf
bunpy create app my-cli
.fi
.PP
Create a library accepting all defaults:
.PP
.nf
bunpy create lib my-lib --yes
.fi
.PP
Create a workspace skeleton:
.PP
.nf
bunpy create workspace mono --yes
.fi
.PP
List available templates:
.PP
.nf
bunpy create --list
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-publish (1),
.BR bunpy-workspace (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1)
