.TH BUNPY-AUDIT 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-audit \- scan pinned packages against the OSV vulnerability database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy audit
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-\-ignore
.IR id ]
.RB [ \-\-lockfile
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-workspace
.IR root ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy audit
reads
.B bunpy.lock
and queries the OSV (Open Source Vulnerabilities) database at
.I https://api.osv.dev/v1/querybatch
for every pinned package. No API key is required for PyPI ecosystem queries.
.PP
Findings are sorted by severity (CRITICAL first) then by package name.
.B bunpy audit
exits 1 when any unfiltered vulnerability is found, making it suitable as
a CI gate.
.PP
Severity levels are mapped from the OSV
.B database_specific.severity
field when present, or from the CVSS score otherwise:
.TS
tab(@);
l l.
CVSS >= 9.0@CRITICAL
CVSS >= 7.0@HIGH
CVSS >= 4.0@MEDIUM
CVSS >= 0.1@LOW
missing@UNKNOWN
.TE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output findings as a JSON array. Empty result is
.B []
(not null). Exit code follows the same rule: 1 if any finding, 0 if none.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Print only a one-line count summary. Useful when the table output is too
wide for a CI log.
.TP
.BI \-\-ignore " id"
Suppress a specific advisory by GHSA or CVE identifier.
Comparison is case-insensitive. May be repeated for multiple suppressions.
.TP
.BI \-\-lockfile " path"
Path to the lockfile to audit (default:
.BR bunpy.lock ).
.TP
.BI \-\-workspace " root"
Read the lock from the given workspace root directory instead of
auto-detecting it.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
No vulnerabilities found, or all found were suppressed with
.BR \-\-ignore .
.TP
.B 1
One or more vulnerabilities found.
.TP
.B 2
Usage error or missing lockfile.
.SH EXAMPLES
Audit the current project and fail CI if any vuln is found:
.PP
.nf
bunpy audit
.fi
.PP
Suppress a known false-positive:
.PP
.nf
bunpy audit --ignore GHSA-xxxx-yyyy-zzzz
.fi
.PP
Machine-readable output for downstream tools:
.PP
.nf
bunpy audit --json | jq '.[] | select(.severity == "CRITICAL")'
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-why (1),
.BR bunpy-workspace (1)
