.TH BUNPY-OUTDATED 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-outdated \- list pinned packages with newer versions on the index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy outdated
.RI [ pkg ...]
.RB [ -D | --dev ]
.RB [ -O | --optional
.IR group ]
.RB [ --all-extras ]
.RB [ -P | --peer ]
.RB [ --production ]
.RB [ --json ]
.RB [ \-\-index
.IR url ]
.RB [ \-\-cache-dir
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Walks
.I ./bunpy.lock
and, for each pin selected by the lane filters, fetches the project's
PEP 691 page through the same client
.BR bunpy-pm-info (1)
uses. Three columns are produced:
.B current
(the lockfile pin),
.B wanted
(the highest version satisfying the manifest spec for that package),
and
.B latest
(the highest non-yanked, wheel-bearing version on the index, ignoring
the spec).
.PP
A pin is shown when
.B wanted
or
.B latest
exceeds
.BR current .
The default lane set is
.B main
only, mirroring
.BR bunpy-install (1).
Pass positional package names to restrict the report to those
packages; otherwise every selected pin is checked.
.PP
This command is read-only: it does not modify the manifest, the
lockfile, or
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
Use
.BR bunpy-update (1)
to act on the report.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -D, --dev
Include pins tagged with lane
.B dev
or
.BI group: name .
.TP
.BR -O ", " --optional " " \fIgroup\fR
Include pins tagged with lane
.BI optional: group .
May be repeated.
.TP
.B --all-extras
Include every
.BI optional: group
lane.
.TP
.B -P, --peer
Include pins tagged with lane
.BR peer .
.TP
.B --production
Alias for the default (main only). Mutually exclusive with the lane
flags. Provided for Bun parity.
.TP
.B --json
Emit a JSON object
.RB ( {"outdated":[ ... ]} )
instead of the human-readable table. Each row carries
.BR name ,
.BR current ,
.BR wanted ,
.BR latest ,
and the pin's full
.B lanes
list.
.TP
.BI \-\-index " url"
Override the simple index URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the wheel cache root.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, redirects index fetches to a fixture root. Test-only.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero whether or not anything is outdated. Non-zero on a manifest
parse error, missing lockfile, or index fetch failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-update (1),
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-info (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
