.TH BUNPYX 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpyx \- run a Python package entry point without installing it permanently
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpyx
.I pkg
.RB [ @version ]
.RI [ args ...]
.br
.B bunpyx
.B \-\-from
.I module
.I pkg
.RB [ @version ]
.RI [ args ...]
.br
.B bunpyx
.B \-\-version
.br
.B bunpyx
.B \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpyx
fetches a Python package from PyPI (or the local wheel cache),
installs it into a temporary directory, and runs its declared
console-script entry point.
It is the Python analogue of
.B bunx
(from the Bun JavaScript runtime): run a tool once without making it a
permanent project dependency.
.PP
The execution model is:
.IP 1. 4
Resolve the package version. If
.I @version
is omitted, the latest published version is used.
.IP 2. 4
Check the wheel cache (default
.BR ~/.cache/bunpyx/wheels/ ).
On a cache hit, the download is skipped.
.IP 3. 4
Select the best wheel for the current platform using the same tag
ranking as
.BR "bunpy install" .
.IP 4. 4
Unpack the wheel into a temp prefix and write console-script shims.
.IP 5. 4
Exec the shim (Unix) or start a child process (Windows) with any
remaining arguments.
.IP 6. 4
On exit, the temp prefix is removed unless
.B \-\-keep
is given.
.PP
The exit code mirrors the invoked process.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-from " module"
Run
.B python\ \-m\ \fImodule\fR
instead of looking up the default console-script entry point.
Useful when the package ships a
.B __main__.py
but no registered entry point.
.TP
.BI \-\-python " path"
Path to the Python executable. Defaults to the first
.B python3
or
.B python
found on
.B PATH.
.TP
.BI \-\-cache\-dir " dir"
Wheel cache directory. Defaults to
.BR ~/.cache/bunpyx/wheels/ .
Pass the same path as
.B bunpy install
to share wheels.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-cache
Skip the wheel cache and always fetch from PyPI. The downloaded wheel
is still written to the cache unless
.B \-\-cache\-dir
points nowhere writable.
.TP
.B \-\-keep
Keep the temp prefix after the process exits. Its path is printed to
stderr so you can inspect what was installed.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-version
Print
.B bunpyx\ \fIversion\fR
and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit 0.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run the Black formatter on the current directory:
.PP
.nf
bunpyx black .
.fi
.PP
Run a specific version:
.PP
.nf
bunpyx black@24.10.0 .
.fi
.PP
Run ruff using
.B \-\-from
(in case the entry point name differs from the package name):
.PP
.nf
bunpyx --from ruff ruff check .
.fi
.PP
Share the wheel cache with bunpy:
.PP
.nf
bunpyx --cache-dir ~/.cache/bunpy/wheels black .
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Invoked process exited 0, or
.B \-\-help
/
.B \-\-version
was requested.
.TP
.B 1
Package not found, no matching wheel, entry point not found, or
internal error.
.TP
.BI N " (any other value)"
Exit code of the invoked process.
.SH NOTES
On Windows,
.B bunpyx
cannot use
.B exec (2)
semantics. It starts the entry-point shim as a child process, waits
for it, and calls
.B os.Exit
with the child's exit code. Signal forwarding is not implemented in
v0.2.4.
.PP
bunpyx reuses the same wheel file format and tag selection as
.B bunpy install.
A wheel downloaded by bunpyx can be placed in the bunpy wheel cache
and will be picked up by subsequent
.B bunpy install
runs.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-why (1)
