.TH BUNPY-WORKSPACE 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-workspace \- list and navigate workspace members
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy workspace
.RB [ \-\-list ]
.RB [ \-\-workspace
.IR root ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy workspace
inspects multi-member workspaces declared with a
.B [tool.bunpy.workspace]
table in a root
.IR pyproject.toml .
A workspace groups related Python projects under a single lock file at
the root. All member dependencies are resolved together so version
conflicts are caught at lock time rather than at install time.
.PP
bunpy auto-detects the workspace root by walking up the directory tree
from the current working directory until it finds a
.I pyproject.toml
that contains a
.B [tool.bunpy.workspace]
table.
.PP
Workspace members are declared with relative paths or glob patterns:
.PP
.nf
[tool.bunpy.workspace]
members = ["packages/alpha", "packages/beta", "apps/*"]
.fi
.PP
Each member directory must contain its own
.IR pyproject.toml .
A single
.B bunpy.lock
at the workspace root pins all transitive dependencies across all
members.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-list
Print each member name and its path relative to the workspace root,
one per line. This is the default action when no other flags are given.
.TP
.BI \-\-workspace " root"
Use
.I root
as the workspace root instead of auto-detecting it from the current
working directory.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
List members from inside a workspace member directory:
.PP
.nf
cd my-workspace/packages/alpha
bunpy workspace --list
.fi
.PP
List members by specifying the workspace root explicitly:
.PP
.nf
bunpy workspace --list --workspace /path/to/my-workspace
.fi
.PP
Add a dependency to a specific member:
.PP
.nf
bunpy add --member alpha requests
.fi
.PP
Install all workspace dependencies (auto-detects workspace root):
.PP
.nf
bunpy install
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred (workspace root not found, malformed manifest, etc.).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-why (1)
