.TH BUNPY-REMOVE 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-remove \- drop packages from pyproject.toml and uninstall them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy remove
.IR pkg ...
.RB [ -D | --dev ]
.RB [ \-\-group
.IR name ]
.RB [ -O | --optional
.IR group ]
.RB [ -P | --peer ]
.RB [ --no-install ]
.RB [ --no-write ]
.RB [ \-\-target
.IR dir ]
.RB [ \-\-index
.IR url ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The inverse of
.BR bunpy-add (1).
For each named package,
.B bunpy remove
deletes its entry from
.B pyproject.toml
(every lane unless a lane flag narrows the scope), re-runs the
resolver against the new lane map with surviving pins held via
.IR Solver.Locked ,
rewrites
.B bunpy.lock
to drop the named packages and any transitive that no longer has a
root, and uninstalls the dropped pins from
.I ./.bunpy/site-packages
unless
.B --no-install
is set.
.PP
A bare
.B bunpy remove <pkg>
deletes the entry from every lane it appears in:
.BR [project].dependencies ,
every PEP 735
.BR [dependency-groups] ,
every PEP 621
.BR [project.optional-dependencies] ,
and
.BR [tool.bunpy].peer-dependencies .
Lane flags
.BR -D ,
.BR -O ,
and
.B -P
restrict the delete to one lane. Lane flags are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Removing a package that is not listed in the manifest is not an
error: the verb is idempotent. Removing the last entry in an
array preserves the array
.RI ( "dependencies = [" "newline" "]" )
so the diff stays small.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -D, --dev
Drop only from
.B [dependency-groups].dev
(or from
.BI [dependency-groups]. group
when paired with
.BR --group ).
.TP
.BI \-\-group " name"
Pick a non-default
.B [dependency-groups]
group. Requires
.BR -D .
.TP
.BR -O ", " --optional " " \fIgroup\fR
Drop only from
.BI [project.optional-dependencies]. group .
.TP
.B -P, --peer
Drop only from
.BR [tool.bunpy].peer-dependencies .
.TP
.B --no-install
Edit the manifest and rewrite the lockfile, but do not touch
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.B --no-write
Re-resolve and rewrite
.B bunpy.lock
without editing
.BR pyproject.toml .
Mostly useful for testing; in normal use the manifest and the
lockfile drift apart, which is what
.B --no-write
is for.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " dir"
Site-packages target directory. Defaults to
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.BI \-\-index " url"
Override the simple index URL.
.SH OUTPUT
.B bunpy remove
prints a one-line summary
.RI ( "removed N packages" )
followed by one line per dropped pin
.RI ( "  - name version" ).
.SH UNINSTALL
For each dropped pin,
.B bunpy remove
locates the
.IB name - version .dist-info
directory under the target. When a
.B RECORD
file is present, every listed path is removed (paths that escape
the target are skipped). The dist-info directory itself is then
removed. As a best-effort fallback, the top-level package
directory under the target is removed if it still exists.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, redirects index and wheel fetches to a fixture root.
Test-only.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a clean remove. Non-zero on a manifest error, a parse
error, an unsatisfiable post-remove constraint, more than one
lane flag, or
.B --group
without
.BR -D .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-update (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
