.TH BUNPY-PUBLISH 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-publish \- build and upload a wheel and/or sdist to PyPI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy publish
.RB [ \-\-sdist-only | \-\-wheel-only ]
.RB [ \-\-dry-run ]
.RB [ \-\-registry
.IR url ]
.RB [ \-\-token
.IR token ]
.RB [ \-\-manifest
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy publish
invokes the project's declared PEP 517 build backend to produce a source
distribution and/or wheel, then uploads the artefacts to a PyPI-compatible
registry using HTTP multipart POST.
.PP
The build backend is read from
.B [build-system].build-backend
in
.IR pyproject.toml .
If the section is absent,
.B hatchling.build
is used. The backend must already be installed in the active Python
environment;
.B bunpy publish
does not auto-install build dependencies.
.PP
Authentication uses HTTP Basic auth with username
.B __token__
and the provided API token as password. Token resolution order:
.B \-\-token
flag first, then the
.B PYPI_TOKEN
environment variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-sdist-only
Build and upload a source distribution only; skip the wheel.
.TP
.B \-\-wheel-only
Build and upload a wheel only; skip the sdist.
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Build artefacts but do not upload. Prints the artefact paths to stdout.
No token is required when
.B \-\-dry-run
is set.
.TP
.BI \-\-registry " url"
Upload endpoint URL (default:
.BR https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/ ).
Use
.B https://test.pypi.org/legacy/
for TestPyPI.
.TP
.BI \-\-token " token"
API token to authenticate with the registry. Overrides
.BR PYPI_TOKEN .
.TP
.BI \-\-manifest " path"
Path to
.IR pyproject.toml
(default:
.BR pyproject.toml ).
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PYPI_TOKEN
API token used when
.B \-\-token
is not given.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All artefacts uploaded (or dry-run complete).
.TP
.B 1
Build error, upload error, or missing credentials.
.SH EXAMPLES
Publish to PyPI:
.PP
.nf
PYPI_TOKEN=pypi-... bunpy publish
.fi
.PP
Dry run to verify artefact paths without uploading:
.PP
.nf
bunpy publish --dry-run
.fi
.PP
Upload only the wheel to TestPyPI:
.PP
.nf
bunpy publish --wheel-only --registry https://test.pypi.org/legacy/ --token pypi-...
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-create (1)
