.TH BUNPY-UPDATE 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-update \- re-resolve pins and refresh installed wheels
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy update
.RI [ pkg ...]
.RB [ --latest ]
.RB [ --no-install ]
.RB [ --no-verify ]
.RB [ -D | --dev ]
.RB [ -O | --optional
.IR group ]
.RB [ --all-extras ]
.RB [ -P | --peer ]
.RB [ --production ]
.RB [ \-\-target
.IR dir ]
.RB [ \-\-index
.IR url ]
.RB [ \-\-cache-dir
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Re-runs the resolver against
.B ./pyproject.toml
with the existing
.B bunpy.lock
fed in as a hint: every pin is preserved unless its row is dropped
or its constraint changes. The new lockfile is written, and unless
.B --no-install
is set,
.I ./.bunpy/site-packages
is refreshed via the same install path
.BR bunpy-install (1)
uses.
.PP
With no positional arguments,
.B bunpy update
re-resolves the whole graph but keeps any pin still permitted by
the manifest spec. This lets minor or patch upgrades flow in for
packages whose spec was widened, without disturbing pins that
remain in range.
.PP
With one or more positional package names, only those packages are
unlocked: they are dropped from the lock hint, the resolver picks
afresh subject to the manifest spec, and every other pin holds its
current version. Use this to nudge a single package forward without
moving its peers.
.PP
.B --latest
strips the manifest spec for each named package before resolving,
so the resolver picks the highest non-prerelease version regardless
of what the manifest currently asks for. The on-disk manifest is
not edited; if you want the new lower bound to be permanent, follow
up with
.BR bunpy-add (1).
.B --latest
requires at least one positional package name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --latest
For each named package, ignore the manifest spec and pick the
newest non-prerelease wheel.
.TP
.B --no-install
Write the new lockfile only. Skip the install step.
.TP
.B --no-verify
Skip RECORD hash verification during install. Use only when the
lockfile and a private mirror agree on integrity by other means.
.TP
.B -D, --dev
Include pins tagged with lane
.B dev
or
.BI group: name
when installing.
.TP
.BR -O ", " --optional " " \fIgroup\fR
Include pins tagged with lane
.BI optional: group
when installing. May be repeated.
.TP
.B --all-extras
Include every
.BI optional: group
lane when installing.
.TP
.B -P, --peer
Include pins tagged with lane
.B peer
when installing.
.TP
.B --production
Alias for the default install lane set (main only). Mutually
exclusive with the lane flags.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " dir"
Site-packages target directory. Defaults to
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.BI \-\-index " url"
Override the simple index URL.
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the wheel cache root.
.SH OUTPUT
For each pin whose version changed,
.B bunpy update
prints
.RI ' name " " old " -> " new '
to stdout. New pins are tagged
.RB ( added ).
When no pin moved,
.B no changes
is printed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, redirects index and wheel fetches to a fixture root.
Test-only.
.TP
.B BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
Overrides the cache root used for index responses and wheel bodies.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a clean update. Non-zero on a manifest error, an
unsatisfiable constraint, a fetch failure, an unsafe wheel,
.B --latest
without a positional package name, or
.B --production
combined with a lane flag.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-outdated (1),
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
