.TH BUNPY-WHY 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-why \- print the reverse-deps tree for a pinned package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy why
.I pkg
.RB [ \-\-depth
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-top ]
.RB [ \-\-json ]
.RB [ \-\-lane
.IR name ]
.RB [ \-\-cache-dir
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-manifest
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-lockfile
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy why
answers
.RB \(lq why
is this package in my lockfile?\(rq. It reads
.B bunpy.lock
plus the cached wheels' Requires-Dist metadata, builds a forward
dependency graph, and walks upward from the queried pin to every
direct project requirement that transitively reaches it.
.PP
Each chain terminates at a virtual
.B @project
edge tagged with the lane the requirement was declared in
.RB ( main ", " dev ", " optional:<group> ", " group:<name> ", " peer ).
.PP
The result also surfaces overlay state: a linked pin shows
.B (linked)
and uses installer
.BR bunpy-link ;
a patched pin shows
.B (patched)
and uses installer
.BR bunpy-patch .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-depth " N"
Cap traversal depth. Zero (the default) disables the cap.
.TP
.B \-\-top
Print only the deduped names of the direct project requirements
that pull
.I pkg
in. One name per line. Useful for grep and scripting.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Emit the result as a JSON object with fields
.IR package ", " version ", " installer ", " linked ", " patched ", " chains .
.TP
.BI \-\-lane " name"
Restrict to chains whose terminal
.B @project
edge is in the named lane.
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the wheel cache root used to read Requires-Dist.
.TP
.BI \-\-manifest " path"
Path to
.BR pyproject.toml .
Defaults to
.IR ./pyproject.toml .
.TP
.BI \-\-lockfile " path"
Path to
.BR bunpy.lock .
Defaults to
.IR ./bunpy.lock .
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Print the reverse-deps tree for urllib3:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ bunpy why urllib3
urllib3 2.2.3
  via requests 2.32.3 [<3,>=1.21.1]
    via project requirement (main)
.EE
.RE
.PP
List the direct dependencies that pull urllib3 in:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ bunpy why urllib3 --top
requests
.EE
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero when the package is found in the lockfile and the tree was
printed. Non-zero on a missing
.BR bunpy.lock ,
an unknown package name, or an unreadable cache.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-update (1),
.BR bunpy-outdated (1),
.BR bunpy-link (1),
.BR bunpy-patch (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
