.TH BUNPY-ADD 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-add \- add a single package to pyproject.toml and install it
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy add
.I pkg
.RB [ <spec> ]
.RB [ -D | --dev ]
.RB [ --group
.IR name ]
.RB [ -O | --optional
.IR group ]
.RB [ -P | --peer ]
.RB [ --no-install ]
.RB [ --no-write ]
.RB [ --target
.IR dir ]
.RB [ --index
.IR url ]
.RB [ --cache-dir
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Loads
.B ./pyproject.toml
in strict mode, hands the requirement to the resolver, walks every
Requires-Dist edge, evaluates PEP 508 markers against the host
environment, picks platform wheels through the same compatibility-tag
ladder pip uses, installs each one through the
.BR bunpy-pm-install-wheel (1)
machinery, and writes the resolved spec back into the matching
manifest table.
.PP
v0.1.5 lit up the resolver and platform wheel picker. v0.1.6 adds
Bun-style lane flags so a spec can target a non-main lane: the
manifest is edited in the right table and the lockfile pin is
tagged with the chosen lane. The lane flags are mutually exclusive.
.PP
When the caller omits a spec, the line written into the manifest
is
.IR name >= resolved-version .
When the caller provides a spec, it is written verbatim. Re-adding
an already-listed package replaces its line with the new spec.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -D, --dev
Write the spec to PEP 735
.B [dependency-groups].dev
and tag the lockfile pin with lane
.BR dev .
.TP
.BI --group " name"
With
.BR -D ,
write to
.BI [dependency-groups]. name
instead of
.BR .dev .
The lockfile lane is
.BI group: name .
.TP
.BR -O ", " --optional " " \fIgroup\fR
Write the spec to PEP 621
.BI [project.optional-dependencies]. group
and tag the lockfile pin with lane
.BI optional: group .
.TP
.B -P, --peer
Write the spec to
.B [tool.bunpy].peer-dependencies
and tag the lockfile pin with lane
.BR peer .
.TP
.B --no-install
Update the manifest only; do not download or install.
.TP
.B --no-write
Install only; do not modify
.BR pyproject.toml .
.TP
.BI --target " dir"
site-packages target. Default
.BR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.BI --index " url"
Override the simple index URL.
.TP
.BI --cache-dir " path"
Override the cache root.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, redirects index and wheel fetches to a fixture root.
Test-only.
.TP
.B BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
Overrides the cache root used for index responses and wheel
bodies.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a successful add. Non-zero on a manifest error, an
unsatisfied spec, a fetch failure, an unsafe wheel, conflicting
lane flags, or an I/O failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-install-wheel (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-info (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-config (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
