.TH BUNPY-PM-INSTALL-WHEEL 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-pm-install-wheel \- install one wheel into site-packages (PEP 427)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy pm install-wheel
.IR url | path
.RB [ --target
.IR dir ]
.RB [ --no-verify ]
.RB [ --installer
.IR name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Installs one wheel into a target site-packages directory. The
source is either a path ending in
.I .whl
or an
.B https://
URL fetched through the same transport
.BR bunpy-pm-info (1)
uses; the
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
hook redirects fetches to a fixture root for tests.
.PP
v0.1.2 is deliberately narrow:
.B Root-Is-Purelib: true
only,
.B *.data/
subdirs are refused, unsafe entries (zip-slip, absolute paths,
parent traversal) are rejected before any byte hits disk, and
RECORD hashes are verified by default. Files are staged under a
tempdir inside
.B --target
and renamed into place, so a mid-install crash leaves the
existing tree untouched.
.PP
The post-install dist-info gains an
.B INSTALLER
file with the value of
.BR --installer ,
and RECORD is re-emitted with the install-side hashes and sizes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --target " dir"
Install root. Default
.BR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.B --no-verify
Skip RECORD hash verification. Off by default; use only when
inspecting a known-broken wheel.
.TP
.BI --installer " name"
Value to write into
.BR <dist-info>/INSTALLER .
Default
.BR bunpy .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, redirects URL fetches to a fixture root. Test-only.
.TP
.B BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
Overrides the cache root used for downloaded wheel bodies.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a successful install. Non-zero on an unsafe entry, a
hash mismatch, an unsupported wheel shape, a fetch error, or an
I/O failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-pm (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-info (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
