.TH BUNPY-PATCH 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-patch \- open or commit local patches against installed packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy patch
.I pkg
.br
.B bunpy patch --commit
.I pkg
.RB [ \-\-out
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-no-write ]
.br
.B bunpy patch --list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy patch
opens a mutable copy of an installed package, lets the user edit
it, then captures the diff as a versioned patch artefact under
.IR ./patches/ .
The patch is registered in
.B pyproject.toml
under
.RB [ tool.bunpy.patches ]
and re-applied by
.B bunpy install
on every fresh install of the same pin.
.PP
.BI "bunpy patch " pkg
reads
.B bunpy.lock
to find the pin for
.IR pkg ,
extracts the cached wheel into a pristine baseline at
.IR ./.bunpy/patches/.pristine/<name>-<version>/ ,
copies it to a scratch directory at
.IR ./.bunpy/patches/.scratch/<name>-<version>/ ,
and prints the absolute scratch path on stdout. The user edits
files there with their normal editor.
.PP
.BI "bunpy patch --commit " pkg
walks both trees, emits one whole-file unified-diff hunk per
changed file, and writes the body to
.IR ./patches/<name>+<version>.patch .
The entry is registered in
.B pyproject.toml
with key
.IB <name> @ <version>
and the value the patch path. The scratch is removed on success.
.PP
.B bunpy install
applies the patch in place after the wheel install lands. The
applier is strict: a context mismatch (e.g. the pin moved) fails
the install with a named-file error. Refresh the patch by
rerunning
.B bunpy patch
against the new pin.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --commit
Diff scratch vs pristine and persist the patch.
.TP
.B --list
Print every registered patch as
.RI ' name " " version " -> " path " [" status ]'.
.TP
.BI \-\-out " path"
Override the default patch path.
.TP
.B --no-write
Write the patch file without editing
.BR pyproject.toml .
.TP
.B --print-only
Just print the scratch path without copying.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " dir"
Consumer-side site-packages target. Defaults to
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the wheel cache root.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./patches/<name>+<version>.patch
The user-visible patch artefact.
.TP
.I ./.bunpy/patches/.pristine/<name>-<version>/
The pristine baseline extracted from the wheel cache.
.TP
.I ./.bunpy/patches/.scratch/<name>-<version>/
The mutable scratch directory.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a clean open, commit, or list. Non-zero on a missing
.BR bunpy.lock ,
a missing pin, a context mismatch at apply time, or an
unwritable target.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy-link (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
