.TH BUNPY-INSTALL 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-install \- install pinned wheels from bunpy.lock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy install
.RB [ -D | --dev ]
.RB [ -O | --optional
.IR group ]
.RB [ --all-extras ]
.RB [ -P | --peer ]
.RB [ --production ]
.RB [ \-\-target
.IR dir ]
.RB [ \-\-cache-dir
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-\-no-verify ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads
.I ./bunpy.lock
and installs each
.B [[package]]
pin into
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
The lockfile is treated as the source of truth: the resolver does
not run, so the install is deterministic across machines that share
the lockfile. Each wheel is fetched through the same httpkit and
cache path
.BR bunpy-add (1)
uses, then installed via the v0.1.2 wheel installer (purelib only,
RECORD-verified, atomic stage and rename).
.PP
v0.1.6 reads the per-pin
.B lanes
field and filters by the lane flags below. The default keeps only
.BR main ;
pins without a
.B lanes
field are treated as
.BR main .
Run
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1)
first when the lockfile is missing or stale.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -D, --dev
Also install pins tagged with lane
.B dev
or
.BI group: name
(PEP 735 dependency groups).
.TP
.BR -O ", " --optional " " \fIgroup\fR
Also install pins tagged with lane
.BI optional: group .
May be repeated.
.TP
.B --all-extras
Also install every
.BI optional: group
lane.
.TP
.B -P, --peer
Also install pins tagged with lane
.BR peer .
.TP
.B --production
Alias for the default (main only). Mutually exclusive with the lane
flags. Provided for Bun parity.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " dir"
Site-packages target directory. Defaults to
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.TP
.BI \-\-cache-dir " path"
Override the wheel cache root. Defaults to
.I $BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
or the platform XDG default.
.TP
.B \-\-no-verify
Skip RECORD hash verification. Use when the lockfile and a private
mirror agree on integrity by other means.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero when every selected pin installs cleanly. Non-zero when the
lockfile is missing, a wheel cannot be fetched, RECORD verification
fails, or
.B --production
is combined with a lane flag.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-lock (1),
.BR bunpy-pm-install-wheel (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
