.TH BUNPY-PM-INFO 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-pm-info \- print PEP 691 project metadata as JSON
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy pm info
.I package
.RB [ --no-cache ]
.RB [ --index
.IR url ]
.RB [ --cache-dir
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fetches the PEP 691 simple-index page for
.I package
from the configured index (default
.IR https://pypi.org/simple/ ),
parses every release artefact, and prints a JSON object to
stdout.
.PP
The output has these top-level keys:
.TP
.B name
PEP 503 normalised project name.
.TP
.B versions
Sorted unique versions parsed from the file list.
.TP
.B files
One entry per release artefact with
.BR filename ,
.BR url ,
.BR hashes ,
.BR requires_python ,
.BR yanked ,
.BR yanked_reason ,
.BR version ,
and
.BR kind
.RB ( wheel ", " sdist ", " unknown ).
.TP
.B meta
The page's
.BR api_version ", " last_serial ", "
and the response
.B etag
when present.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --no-cache
Skip the on-disk cache for this call.
.TP
.BI --index " url"
Override the index URL.
.TP
.BI --cache-dir " path"
Override the cache directory.
.SH CACHING
Responses are cached at
.IR ${XDG_CACHE_HOME}/bunpy/index/<name>/page.json ,
with a sibling
.B etag
file for revalidation. A second call issues an
.B If-None-Match
request and a 304 turns into a cache hit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_PYPI_FIXTURES
When set, swaps the live transport for a fixture transport
rooted at the named directory. Test-only.
.TP
.B BUNPY_CACHE_DIR
Overrides the cache root.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a successful fetch and parse. Non-zero on a network
error, a 404, or a parse failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-pm (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
