.TH BUNPY-LINK 1 "2026-04-27" "bunpy" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bunpy-link \- register or install editable links
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bunpy link
.RB [ --list ]
.RI [ pkg "...]"
.RB [ \-\-target
.IR dir ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bunpy link
manages a global registry of editable Python packages.
.PP
A bare
.B bunpy link
reads
.I ./pyproject.toml ,
normalises the project name, and writes a JSON entry into the
registry root (one file per package). Re-registering an existing
entry overwrites it; the verb is idempotent.
.PP
.BI "bunpy link " pkg ...
reads each entry from the registry and lays down a PEP 660
editable proxy under
.I ./.bunpy/site-packages :
a
.IB name .pth
pointing at the absolute source root, plus a
.IB name - version .dist-info
directory with
.BR METADATA ,
.BR RECORD ,
.B direct_url.json
(PEP 610), and an
.B INSTALLER
file equal to
.BR bunpy-link .
.PP
.B bunpy install
reads
.B INSTALLER
on each lockfile pin and skips re-installing any package whose
installer is
.BR bunpy-link ,
so a link survives unrelated install runs. To flip a link back to
a pinned wheel, run
.B bunpy unlink <pkg>
followed by
.BR "bunpy install" .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --list
Print every entry in the global registry as
.RI ' name " " version " -> " path '.
.TP
.BI \-\-target " dir"
Consumer-side site-packages target. Defaults to
.IR ./.bunpy/site-packages .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BUNPY_LINK_DIR
Override the registry root. When unset, the platform's user-data
directory is used:
.I $XDG_DATA_HOME/bunpy/links
on Linux,
.I "~/Library/Application Support/bunpy/links"
on macOS,
.I "%LOCALAPPDATA%\\bunpy\\links"
on Windows.
.SH FILES
.TP
.IB <BUNPY_LINK_DIR> / name .json
The JSON entry for one linked package.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Zero on a clean register or install. Non-zero on a missing
.BR pyproject.toml ,
a missing project name, an unknown registry entry, or an
unwritable target.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bunpy-unlink (1),
.BR bunpy-add (1),
.BR bunpy-install (1),
.BR bunpy (1).
